---
layout: post
title: My Summer at Stack Overflow
---

This summer, I had the privilege of joining Stack Overflow as part of their pilot apprenticeship program. For the past 11 weeks, Ian (the other apprentice) and I have worked alongside the Careers and Core Q&A development teams. In this final week, I have started to reflect on my most valuable takeaways. From the exciting projects to the incredibly smart and humble people I’ve met throughout the company, almost every aspect of the program has exceeded my expectations. However, what I have come to value most is the experience of solving real world challenges in the workplace — an experience I could not have gained in school or through self-study.

### Before Stack Overflow
I studied Accounting in college and worked in public accounting for a few years. I eventually came to the realization that I wanted to wake up every day to do something I was passionate about. Having always been interested in coding, I decided to teach myself and I began to find enormous satisfaction in being able to build and automate things. I decided to take the next step and participated in a 17 week long coding bootcamp for women where I learned full stack web development in JavaScript using the MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular, Node.js) stack. 

### Bugs, A/B Tests, and Features
I spent the first two weeks learning SO’s tech stack (C#/ASP.NET MVC with SQL Server) by building a ping pong score tracking application. By the end of the second week, we had each chosen a designated mentor for the next 10 weeks. I worked with my mentor, Kirti, on the Careers team, while Ian worked with Jon on the Core/Marketing teams. Our responsibilities included fixing bugs, building out small features, running A/B tests, and watching and participating in usability tests.

During the last few weeks of the program, Ian and I were tasked with building out a feature of our own. This was a rewarding process: we got to take a feature from brainstorming to implementation. We first produced a write up and circulated it around the team for feedback. We then worked with a product manager to scope the project, a designer to discuss how the project fits into the current jobs platform, and an experienced developer for regular code reviews. We were also guided by developers on the Careers team who steered us in the right direction while we navigated the code base.

### The abundance of mentorship opportunities 
One of my favorite things about Stack Overflow were the one-on-one chats I had with my mentor and managers, who gave me valuable insight into their own careers and experiences. These chats were usually unprompted, but I always walked away with constructive feedback about what I needed to work on to become a great developer, for example, learning how to think out loud and communicate technical topics clearly to people with both technical and non-technical backgrounds. I can’t thank Kirti enough for the time she spent in answering all of my questions and for the times she would invite me to sit next to her while she walked me through her approaches to solving various problems.

I also received a lot mentorship outside formal channels. For example, a developer on the Careers team invited me to pair program with him on a full stack feature, which involved redesigning a table that touched many parts of the code base. Through pair programming, I picked up on his workflow and learned various OOP concepts.

Everyone I came across at the company had an open door policy and was happy to teach me and Ian whatever we were curious about. For example, while working on our graduation project, we had to research developer targeting data for jobs, so Dave, Stack Overflow’s data scientist, walked us through some of his work on tag correlations and provided us with tools for using R. We also had to work with a custom query language which made use of an abstract syntax tree, so Bret, Stack Overflow’s Ad Server team lead, gave us a mini-lecture on how a lexer and parser works and showed us how we could build our own.

### What surprised me
From the first day, I was invited to all of the weekly meetings and was treated just like a full-time employee. I was encouraged to sit in on any meeting that interested me, both within and outside of the Careers team. I was also surprised by how quickly any developer could take his/her idea from concept to shipped feature. New features or changes can come from anyone in the company and are pitched through a Google document. The documents are circulated around to affected parties and anyone who is interested. Feedback is always plentiful and often instantaneous. The developer then owns that feature and can work alone or with others. It was awesome seeing people from all parts of the company voicing their ideas and feedback, being receptive to criticism, and bringing their ideas to life without ego and in collaboration with others, all within an incredibly short amount of time.

### My favorite aspect of the program
My favorite part about the apprenticeship was our scheduled chats. These ranged from talking to the marketing and community teams about non-technical topics, to learning how specific code worked throughout Stack Overflow’s various code bases. The technical talks included infrastructure and architecture chats as well as general concepts like web security, caching and garbage collection. Some of my favorite non-technical topics were about diversity, impostor syndrome, and an in-depth look at Stack Overflow’s hiring process. I even had the opportunity to shadow a product manager interview!

### Top three favorite perks
My favorite perk at StackOverflow was having food cooked for lunch everyday by incredible in-house chefs. During a weekend brunch at Stack Overflow, the chefs had live sea urchin, which I got to crack open myself! I also tried out Thai chili and habanero peppers and dried locusts with coworkers and the chefs — an unforgettable experience.

My second favorite perk was having a quiet place to work. Each developer in the NY office has their own private office, with adjustable height desks and multiple monitors. Some employees have treadmills in their office instead of chairs and others have drums and guitars. 

The third coolest perk was the ability to work remotely. Remote work is ingrained in SO’s culture, and over half of the dev team works from locations all over the world, including Brazil, Hawaii, and Germany. One of the devs recently traveled around the world for 3 months while working full-time!

### Advice for future apprentices
The most challenging part of the internship for me was getting used to communicating through chat rooms and hangouts (video chats). Since most of the engineering team is remote, all communication and links to video chats are public in the chat rooms. Pieces of information you may need to solve a particular problem could be dispersed amongst different developers, teams, documents, and codebases, so it is important to be able to gather this information in an effective way. I am the type of person who likes to try and figure out problems on my own with as little help as possible, so I struggled at first with asking for help through chat. However, in a work and team setting, reaching out for help from an experienced person could help you solve a problem in a fraction of the time that you may have spent on your own. Asking questions is the single most valuable thing you can do during the apprenticeship.

Overall, I really enjoyed my summer at Stack Overflow. It was amazing to be part of a team where everyone believes in the product they are building and to be surrounded by intelligent and self-motivated people who are always trying to improve. There was never a dull moment here at S.O. and I grew immensely as a developer in just three months. I am grateful to have had such great mentorship throughout my time here, and I’m excited to continue building on what I’ve learned!
